---
layout: paper
title: 'Structural Basis for Ligand Modulation of the CCR2 Conformational Landscape'
authors: 'B. C. Taylor, C. T. Lee, and R. E. Amaro<sup>$</sup>'

journal: 'Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.'
doi: 10.1073/pnas.1814131116
shortcite: Taylor et al., 2019 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
citation: '116.17 (April 2019), pp. 8131--8136'

image: taylor-ccr2.png
pdf: 
supplement: 

biorxiv: 10.1101/392068
arxiv: 
chemrxiv: 

github: 
zenodo: 

date: 2019-04-23

status: 
inprep: False
---

# Abstract

CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) is a part of the chemokine receptor family, an important class of therapeutic targets. These class A G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are involved in mammalian signaling pathways and control cell migration toward endogenous CC chemokine ligands, named for the adjacent cysteine motif on their N terminus. Chemokine receptors and their associated ligands are involved in a wide range of diseases and thus have become important drug targets. CCR2, in particular, promotes the metastasis of cancer cells and is also implicated in autoimmunity-driven type-1 diabetes, diabetic nephropathy, multiple sclerosis, asthma, atherosclerosis, neuropathic pain, and rheumatoid arthritis. Although promising, CCR2 antagonists have been largely unsuccessful to date. Here, we investigate the effect of an orthosteric and an allosteric antagonist on CCR2 dynamics by coupling long-timescale molecular dynamics simulations with Markov-state model theory. We find that the antagonists shift CCR2 into several stable inactive conformations that are distinct from the crystal structure conformation and disrupt a continuous internal water and sodium ion pathway, preventing transitions to an active-like state. Several metastable conformations present a cryptic drug-binding pocket near the allosteric site that may be amenable to targeting with small molecules. Without antagonists, the apo dynamics reveal intermediate conformations along the activation pathway that provide insight into the basal dynamics of CCR2 and may also be useful for future drug design.
