---
layout: misc
title: Join the lab
tags:
 - joining
---

{% assign job_posts = site.categories.news | where: 'job', true %}

{% if job_posts.size == 0 %}
**While there are no currently advertised openings, we are always excited to hear from interested candidates. We are committed to improving diversity in the computational sciences. Applicants of diverse backgrounds are particularly encouraged to apply.**
{% else %}
## Active Oppportunities
**We are hiring!**
{% for post in job_posts %}
- [{{post.title}}]({{ post.url | relative_url }})
{% endfor %}
{% endif %}

## Postdoctoral fellows

Please send (1) cover letter that includes the names and contacts for two references and a short statement of research interests, (2) a current CV and (3) code samples or links to published/distributed code to Chris by email (ctlee<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@ucsd.edu).

## Graduate students

Graduate students must be admitted into a UCSD Ph.D. or M.Sc. program to join the group. Students in the [BioSci PhD Program](https://biology.ucsd.edu/education/grad/phd/index.html) who are interested in rotation can see the lab availability [here](https://biology.ucsd.edu/research/faculty/ctlee). Students in other UCSD graduate programs should contact Chris by email (ctlee<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@ucsd.edu).

## Undergraduate and other prospective students

Folks interested in our research at other career stages should send a copy of their CV/resume and a statement of interest to Chris by email (ctlee<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@ucsd.edu).

Skills that are useful for undergraduates hoping to apply:
- Python (or equivalent programming experience)
- Differential Equations
- Multivariable Calculus
- Statistical Physics
- Image Segmentation
- Machine Learning
- No biology experience necessary, but strong interest is!
